DOCSP-37525 - Compression (#44)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/connect/connection-options.txt

.. _pymongo-connection-options:

======================
Set Connection Options
======================

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: connection string, URI, server, Atlas, settings, configure

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

This section describes the MongoDB connection and authentication options
available in {+driver-short+}. You can configure your connection using either
the connection URI or arguments to the ``MongoClient`` constructor.

.. _pymongo-connection-uri:

Using the Connection URI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you pass a connection URI to the ``MongoClient`` constructor, you can include
connection options in the string as ``<name>=<value>`` pairs. In the following example,

> the connection URI contains the ``connectTimeoutMS`` option with a value of ``60000``
> and the ``tls`` option with a value of ``true``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the connection URI contains the ``connect_timeout`` option with a value of ``60000``
and the ``tls`` option with a value of ``True``:
```

Author: good call on option name, but "true" is fine for the connection URI

   using a ``MongoClientSettings`` object for a time duration, use the appropriate
   ``TimeSpan`` value.

Network Compression
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 30 70

   * - Connection Option
     - Description

   * - **compressors**
     - | The preferred compression types, in order, for wire-protocol messages sent to
       | or received from the server. The driver uses the first of these compression types
       | that the server supports.
       |
       | **Data Type**: {+string-data-type+}
       | **Default**: ``None``
       | **MongoClient Example**: ``compressors = "snappy,zstd,zlib"``
       | **Connection URI Example**: ``compressors=snappy,zstd,zlib``

   * - **zlibCompressionLevel**
     - | The compression level for zlib to use. This option accepts
       | an integer value between ``-1`` and ``9``:
       | 
       | - **-1:** (Default). zlib uses its default compression level (usually ``6``).
       | - **0:** No compression.
       | - **1:** Fastest speed but lowest compression.
       | - **9:** Best compression but slowest speed.
       |
       | **Data Type**: {+int-data-type+}
       | **Default**: ``-1``

>        | **MongoClient Example**: ``zlibCompressionLevel = "3``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       | **MongoClient Example**: ``zlibCompressionLevel = 3``
```
